.TH BLENDER-ASSET-FINDER-CLI 1 "May 2026" "blender-asset-finder-cli 0.1.0" "Foundry Linux"
.SH NAME
blender-asset-finder-cli \- search and download CC0-licensed 3D assets from supported providers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blender-asset-finder-cli search
\fIQUERY\fR
[\fB\-\-provider\fR \fIa,b,c\fR]
[\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR]
.br
.B blender-asset-finder-cli download
\fIprovider/asset-id\fR
[\fB\-\-dest\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.br
.B blender-asset-finder-cli policy show
[\fB\-\-blend-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.br
.B blender-asset-finder-cli providers list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B blender-asset-finder-cli
is the command-line companion to the
.BR blender-asset-finder (1)
Blender add-on. It searches and downloads 3D assets from supported
repositories
\(em Polyhaven, Kenney, AmbientCG, Quaternius, OpenGameArt, Sketchfab
\(em and filters results by per-blend-directory licence policy.
.PP
The same provider library powers the blender-asset-finder Blender add-on
(shipped separately); both front-ends share their search/download logic.
This package bundles its own copy of the library so it has no runtime
dependency on the Blender add-on being installed.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B search \fIQUERY\fR
Search across providers; filter results by the active licence policy
and print a one-per-line list of `provider/asset-id  title  licence`.
.TP
.B download \fIprovider/asset-id\fR
Download a specific asset to the destination directory (default:
the current directory's `assets/` subdir if one exists, else `.`).
.TP
.B policy show
Show the active licence policy. With \fB\-\-blend\-dir\fR, resolve
the policy file (\fIlicence_policy.toml\fR) relative to that
directory. Without it, falls back to a CC0-only default.
.TP
.B providers list
Print the names of all supported providers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-provider " a,b,c"
Restrict
.B search
to the comma-separated list of providers. Default: all enabled
providers.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " N"
Cap result count at N (default: 20).
.TP
.BI \-\-dest " PATH"
Download destination directory.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WF_SKETCHFAB_API_KEY
API token for the Sketchfab provider. Required for Sketchfab
.B search / download
to function.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/blender-asset-finder-cli/wf_asset.py
The CLI source.
.TP
.I /usr/share/blender-asset-finder-cli/blender_asset_finder/providers.py
The shared search/download library — identical to the file the
blender-asset-finder Blender add-on uses (the deb ships its own copy).
.TP
.I /usr/share/blender-asset-finder-cli/blender_asset_finder/*_catalog.json
Provider catalogs (Kenney + Quaternius use prebuilt catalogs because
neither has a search API).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
Bad arguments, provider error, or download failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR blender-asset-finder-install (1),
.BR blender (1)
.PP
.UR https://github.com/wbniv/WorldFoundry
.UE
.SH AUTHORS
World Foundry contributors. Debian packaging by WorldFoundry Packages
<packages@worldfoundry.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2001-2026 World Foundry contributors. Released under the
GNU General Public License version 2 or (at your option) any later
version.
