.TH BSNES\-JG 1 "June 2026" "bsnes-jg 2.1.0" "Games"
.SH NAME
bsnes\-jg \- cycle-accurate Super Nintendo / Super Famicom emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bsnes\-jg
.I rom
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bsnes\-jg
is a cycle-accurate emulator for the Super Famicom / Super Nintendo
Entertainment System, a fork of byuu's bsnes v115 maintained under the Jolly
Good Emulation project. It emulates the SNES with high accuracy, including the
Super Game Boy, BS-X Satellaview, and Sufami Turbo, plus the SA-1, SuperFX,
DSP-\fIn\fR, Cx4, S-DD1, SPC7110 and other enhancement coprocessors.
.PP
This package ships the self-contained SDL frontend. Pass a single ROM image
(\fI.sfc\fR/\fI.smc\fR) as the only argument; the emulator opens a window and
runs until closed. The game database that selects the correct input devices and
coprocessors is read from
.IR /usr/share/jollygood/bsnes/ .
.SH OPTIONS
.B bsnes\-jg
takes no options \(em only a single ROM path. With no argument it prints a
usage line and exits.
.SH CONTROLS
Player 1 is mapped to the keyboard:
.TP
.B Arrow keys
D\-pad (Up / Down / Left / Right)
.TP
.B Z / X
B / A
.TP
.B A / S
Y / X
.TP
.B Q / W
L / R (shoulder)
.TP
.B Return
Start
.TP
.B Right Shift
Select
.PP
The function keys (Escape, F1, F2) drive frontend actions such as quit and
fullscreen.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/jollygood/bsnes/
SNES game database (board, BS Memory, Sufami Turbo, and Super Famicom tables).
.SH NOTES
This is the standalone reference frontend. The same upstream codebase also
builds a Jolly Good module (\fIbsnes.so\fR) for the \fBjgrf\fR frontend, which
this package does not ship.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project page: <https://gitlab.com/jgemu/bsnes>
.SH AUTHORS
bsnes by byuu et al; bsnes-jg maintained by Rupert Carmichael. This man page was
written for Foundry Linux.
.SH COPYRIGHT
bsnes-jg is distributed under the GNU GPL version 3 or later.
