.TH WLA\-6502 1 "November 2023" "WLA-DX 10.6" "WLA DX Assembler"
.SH NAME
wla\-6502 \- WLA DX cross-assembler for the MOS 6502 CPU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wla\-6502
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.B \-o
.I output.o
.I source.asm
.br
.B wla\-6502
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.B \-l
.I output.lib
.I source.asm
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wla\-6502
assembles MOS 6502 source code to a WLA DX object or library file.
.PP
WLA DX is a multi-platform cross-assembler package that provides one
assembler executable per supported CPU architecture. All assemblers share
an identical command-line interface; this man page serves as the reference
for all of them. Each assembler in the suite targets a different CPU:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B wla\-6502
MOS Technology 6502 (NES, C64, Apple II)
.TP
.B wla\-65c02
WDC 65C02 (Apple IIc, BBC Master)
.TP
.B wla\-65ce02
CSG 65CE02 (Amiga CD32 joypad)
.TP
.B wla\-65816
WDC 65816 \- SNES main CPU
.TP
.B wla\-spc700
Sony SPC700 \- SNES audio CPU
.TP
.B wla\-superfx
Nintendo SuperFX coprocessor (SNES)
.TP
.B wla\-cx4
Capcom CX4 coprocessor (SNES)
.TP
.B wla\-6800
Motorola 6800
.TP
.B wla\-6801
Motorola 6801
.TP
.B wla\-6809
Motorola 6809
.TP
.B wla\-68000
Motorola 68000
.TP
.B wla\-z80
Zilog Z80
.TP
.B wla\-z80n
Zilog Z80N
.TP
.B wla\-gb
Game Boy Z80 (GB-Z80)
.TP
.B wla\-ez80
Zilog eZ80
.TP
.B wla\-8008
Intel 8008
.TP
.B wla\-8080
Intel 8080
.TP
.B wla\-huc6280
HuC6280 (NEC PC Engine / TurboGrafx-16)
.TP
.B wla\-sh2
Hitachi SH-2
.RE
.PP
Object files produced by a wla\-ARCH assembler are linked together
using
.BR wlalink (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c
Continue parsing after an error.
.TP
.B \-d
Disable WLA's ability to calculate A\-B where A and B are labels.
.TP
.B \-h
Assume all label references are 16-bit by default (size hints still work).
.TP
.B \-i
Add list file information.
.TP
.B \-k
Keep empty sections.
.TP
.B \-M
Output makefile rules.
.TP
.B \-MP
Create a phony target for each dependency other than the main file
(use with \fB\-M\fP).
.TP
.BI \-MF " FILE"
Specify a file to write the dependencies to (use with \fB\-M\fP).
.TP
.B \-p
Pause printing after a screen full of text has been printed
(use with \fB\-SX\fP and \fB\-SY\fP).
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet.
.TP
.B \-s
Don't create \fI_sizeof_*\fP and \fI_paddingof_*\fP definitions.
.TP
.BI \-SX " WIDTH"
The number of characters per line in console (default 80).
.TP
.BI \-SY " HEIGHT"
The number of lines in console (default 25).
.TP
.B \-t
Test assemble.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose messages.
.TP
.B \-v1
Verbose messages (only discard sections).
.TP
.B \-v2
Verbose messages (\fB\-v1\fP plus short summary).
.TP
.B \-w
Require labels to end in a colon.
.TP
.B \-x
Extra compile time labels and definitions.
.TP
.BI \-I " DIR"
Include directory.
.TP
.BI \-D " DEF"
Declare definition.
.SH OUTPUT OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " FILE"
Output object file.
.TP
.BI \-l " FILE"
Output library file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Assemble to object file:
.PP
.RS
.B wla\-6502 \-o main.o main.asm
.RE
.PP
Assemble to object file with definitions and verbose output:
.PP
.RS
.B wla\-6502 \-D VER=1 \-D TWO=2 \-v \-o main.o main.asm
.RE
.PP
Output makefile dependency rules:
.PP
.RS
.B wla\-6502 \-M \-t \-o main.o main.asm
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wlalink (1),
.BR wlab (1)
.SH AUTHORS
WLA DX was written by Ville Helin and contributors.
See https://github.com/vhelin/wla-dx for the full contributor list.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998-2022 Ville Helin and contributors.
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
