.TH WLALINK 1 "November 2023" "WLA-DX 10.6" "WLA DX Assembler"
.SH NAME
wlalink \- WLA DX object file linker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wlalink
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I linkfile
.I outputfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wlalink
links WLA DX object files together to produce a final ROM or program binary.
Object files are created by the wla\-ARCH assemblers; the link file lists
the object files to combine and specifies the memory map.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a " ADDR"
Load address (can also be a label) for CBM PRG output.
.TP
.B \-A
Add address-to-line mapping data to the WLA symbol file.
.TP
.B \-b
Program file output (CBM PRG).
.TP
.BI \-bE " ADDR"
Ending address of the program (optional; use with \fB\-b\fP).
.TP
.BI \-bS " ADDR"
Starting address of the program (optional; use with \fB\-b\fP).
.TP
.B \-c
Allow duplicate labels and definitions.
.TP
.B \-d
Discard unreferenced sections.
.TP
.B \-D
Don't create \fI_sizeof_*\fP definitions.
.TP
.B \-i
Write list files.
.TP
.BI \-L " DIR"
Library directory.
.TP
.B \-nS
Don't sort the sections.
.TP
.B \-p
Pause printing after a screen full of text has been printed
(use with \fB\-SX\fP and \fB\-SY\fP).
.TP
.B \-pR
Write .RAMSECTIONs based on PRIORITY only, ignore .RAMSECTION types.
.TP
.B \-pS
Write .SECTIONs based on PRIORITY only, ignore .SECTION types.
.TP
.B \-r
ROM file output (default).
.TP
.B \-R
Make file paths in the link file relative to its location.
.TP
.B \-s
Write also a NO$GMB/NO$SNES symbol file.
.TP
.B \-S
Write also a WLA symbol file.
.TP
.BI \-SX " WIDTH"
The number of characters per line in console (default 80).
.TP
.BI \-SY " HEIGHT"
The number of lines in console (default 25).
.TP
.BI \-t " TYPE"
Output type (supported types: 'CBMPRG').
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose messages (all).
.TP
.B \-v1
Verbose messages (only discard sections).
.TP
.B \-v2
Verbose messages (\fB\-v1\fP plus short summary).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Link with discarding unreferenced sections, verbose output, and WLA symbol file:
.PP
.RS
.B wlalink \-d \-v \-S linkfile linked.rom
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wla\-6502 (1),
.BR wlab (1)
.SH AUTHORS
WLA DX was written by Ville Helin and contributors.
See https://github.com/vhelin/wla-dx for the full contributor list.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998-2022 Ville Helin and contributors.
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html>.
