.TH ASAR-SNES 1 "June 2026" "asar 1.91" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asar-snes \- SNES 65816/SPC700/SuperFX cross-assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asar-snes
.RI [ options ]
.I asmfile
.I romfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asar-snes
is a multi-architecture cross-assembler for the Super Nintendo Entertainment
System (SNES) and its co-processors. It assembles 65816 (main CPU), SPC700
(audio DSP), and SuperFX (graphics co-processor) source code into a ROM patch.
.PP
.B asar-snes
reads
.I asmfile
(a 65816 assembly source file) and patches the ROM at
.IR romfile ,
or creates a new ROM file if one does not exist.
.PP
The assembler is widely used in SNES ROM hacking (especially Super Mario World
hacks) and homebrew development.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output — print extra information during assembly.
.TP
.BI \-\-symbols= format
Write a symbol file alongside the ROM. Valid formats:
.BR none " (default), " wla ", " nocash .
.TP
.BI \-\-symbols-path= filename
Write the symbol file to
.I filename
instead of the default path.
.TP
.B \-\-no-title-check
Suppress the ROM title safety check. Useful when patching ROMs with
unexpected title fields.
.TP
.BI \-\-pause-mode= when
Control when asar pauses waiting for a keypress. Valid values:
.BR never " (default), " on-error ", " on-warning ", " always .
.TP
.BI \-\-fix-checksum= on|off
Recalculate and fix the ROM checksum after assembly. Default: on.
.TP
.BI \-\-include " path"
Add
.I path
to the include search path. May be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BI \-\-define " def[=val]"
Pre-define the symbol
.I def
(optionally set to
.IR val ).
Equivalent to
.B !def = val
at the top of the source file.
.TP
.BI \-\-error-limit= N
Stop after
.I N
errors (default: 20).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Assembly succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
One or more errors occurred during assembly.
.SH EXAMPLES
Patch a ROM:
.PP
.RS
.B asar-snes hack.asm baserom.sfc
.RE
.PP
Patch with nocash symbol output:
.PP
.RS
.B asar-snes \-\-symbols=nocash \-\-symbols-path=hack.sym hack.asm rom.sfc
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wla-dx (1),
.BR snes9x-gtk (1),
.BR dasm (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Alcaro (RPGHacker) and contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2011\(en2024 Alcaro and contributors.
Licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License, version 3 or later.
.PP
The DLL interface files (asardll.h, asardll.c) are separately licensed
under the WTFPL.
