.TH MESEN2 1 "June 2026" "mesen2 2.1.1" "Games"
.SH NAME
mesen2 \- high-accuracy multi-system console and handheld emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mesen2
.RI [ file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mesen
is a cross-platform, high-accuracy emulator for a range of retro consoles and
handhelds: NES/Famicom, Super NES/Super Famicom, Game Boy and Game Boy Color,
Game Boy Advance, PC Engine/TurboGrafx-16, Master System/Game Gear/SG-1000, and
WonderSwan/WonderSwan Color.
.PP
In addition to general play, Mesen provides an extensive debugging and
development suite: an integrated debugger and assembler, tile/sprite/palette and
memory viewers, an event viewer, a trace logger, and Lua scripting \(em useful
for homebrew development and reverse engineering.
.PP
Mesen is a graphical application; nearly all configuration is performed through
its user interface. This is a thin wrapper that launches the upstream
self-contained binary installed under
.IR /usr/lib/mesen2/Mesen .
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I file
Optional path to a ROM, save state, or movie file to open on startup. The
desktop entry passes the file the user opens via their file manager.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/Mesen2/
User configuration, save data, save states, and screenshots (unless Mesen is
run in portable mode, in which case data is stored alongside the executable).
.SH REQUIREMENTS
Mesen requires
.B SDL2
at runtime; it is pulled in automatically as a package dependency. An X11
session with OpenGL is also required for the emulator's interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project page and documentation:
.UR https://www.mesen.ca/
.UE
and
.UR https://github.com/SourMesen/Mesen2
.UE .
.SH AUTHORS
Mesen is developed by Sour and contributors. This man page was written for the
Foundry Linux package.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Mesen is free software, licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
