.TH VGM-PLAYER 1 "2026-05-18" "libvgm 0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vgm-player \- interactive player for VGM, S98, DRO, and GYM chiptune files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgm-player
.IR file " [" file " ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vgm-player
is the reference player application shipped with libvgm. It plays one or
more chiptune files in sequence by emulating the original sound chips
(YM2151, YM2203, YM2608, YM2612, YM3812, AY-3-8910, SN76489, NES APU,
SegaPCM, and many others) and streaming the rendered audio to ALSA,
PulseAudio, or libao, whichever backend is available at runtime.
.PP
Multiple files given on the command line are queued and played one after
another. Use the
.B N
and
.B B
keys (see
.B INTERACTIVE CONTROLS
below) to skip between them.
.PP
The player is intentionally minimal — it exists to demonstrate the
libvgm API and to provide a working command-line front-end. For richer
playback features, downstream projects such as vgmstream-cli are typically
preferred.
.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
.TP
.B VGM (.vgm, .vgz)
Video Game Music format — sample-accurate chip-register dumps from a wide
range of consoles and arcade boards.
.TP
.B S98 (.s98)
Format originally designed for Yamaha YM-series chip recordings.
.TP
.B DRO (.dro)
DOSBox Raw OPL — captures of AdLib / Sound Blaster OPL2/OPL3 register
writes.
.TP
.B GYM (.gym)
Genesis YM2612 + SN76489 register dump format.
.SH INTERACTIVE CONTROLS
While a file is playing, the following keys are recognised:
.TP
.B Space, P
Pause or resume playback.
.TP
.B R
Restart the current track from the beginning.
.TP
.B 0\(en9
Seek to 0%\(en90% of the current track.
.TP
.B N
Skip to the next file in the queue.
.TP
.B B
Return to the previous file in the queue.
.TP
.B F
Begin a manual fade-out.
.TP
.B C
Enter chip-control mode, where individual sound-chip channels can be
muted or unmuted for diagnostic listening.
.TP
.B Q, Esc
Quit the player.
.SH EXAMPLES
Play a single VGM file:
.IP
vgm-player track01.vgm
.PP
Queue several files and skip between them with
.B N
/
.BR B :
.IP
vgm-player album/*.vgm
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vgm2wav (1),
.BR vgmstream-cli (1),
.BR aplay (1)
.SH AUTHORS
libvgm is written by ValleyBell and contributors. See
.UR https://github.com/ValleyBell/libvgm
the project page
.UE
for the full history.
.PP
This manual page was written by Foundry Linux
<packages@foundrylinux.org> for the Debian packaging of libvgm.
.SH COPYRIGHT
libvgm is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2 or
(at your option) any later version. See
.I /usr/share/doc/libvgm/copyright
for the full license text and per-file licensing details.
