.TH VGM2WAV 1 "2026-05-18" "libvgm 0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vgm2wav \- render a VGM, S98, DRO, or GYM chiptune file to a WAV file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgm2wav
.RI [ options ]
.I input-file
.I output.wav
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vgm2wav
is the offline-rendering companion to
.BR vgm-player (1).
It reads a chiptune file, emulates the original sound chips via libvgm,
and writes the rendered audio to a standard PCM WAV file. No audio
output device is touched — rendering runs as fast as the host can
emulate.
.PP
If
.I output.wav
is given as
.BR - ,
the WAV stream is written to standard output, allowing
.B vgm2wav
to be piped into other audio tools (for example
.BR sox (1)
for resampling or format conversion).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-samplerate " n"
Output sample rate in hertz. Default:
.BR 44100 .
Common alternatives are
.B 48000
(broadcast) and
.B 22050
(authentic-era).
.TP
.BI \-\-bps " n"
Bits per sample. Valid values:
.BR 16 ", " 24 ", " 32 .
Default:
.BR 16 .
The output is always stereo (two channels).
.TP
.BI \-\-fade " seconds"
Length of the fade-out applied after the last loop, in seconds.
Default:
.BR 8.0 .
Set to
.B 0
to disable fading.
.TP
.BI \-\-loops " n"
Number of times the looped section of the track is played before the
fade-out begins. Default:
.BR 2 .
.SH SUPPORTED FORMATS
.BR VGM " (.vgm, .vgz),"
.BR S98 " (.s98),"
.BR DRO " (.dro),"
.BR GYM " (.gym)."
See
.BR vgm-player (1)
for a description of each format.
.SH EXAMPLES
Render a VGM file at the default 44.1 kHz / 16-bit:
.IP
vgm2wav track01.vgm track01.wav
.PP
Render at 48 kHz / 24-bit with a longer fade and three loops:
.IP
vgm2wav --samplerate 48000 --bps 24 --loops 3 --fade 12 track01.vgm track01.wav
.PP
Pipe through
.BR sox (1)
to produce an MP3:
.IP
vgm2wav track01.vgm - | sox -t wav - track01.mp3
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B vgm2wav
exits with status
.B 0
on success and a non-zero status if the input cannot be read, the format
is unrecognised, or the output file cannot be written.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vgm-player (1),
.BR vgmstream-cli (1),
.BR sox (1)
.SH AUTHORS
libvgm is written by ValleyBell and contributors. See
.UR https://github.com/ValleyBell/libvgm
the project page
.UE
for the full history.
.PP
This manual page was written by Foundry Linux
<packages@foundrylinux.org> for the Debian packaging of libvgm.
.SH COPYRIGHT
libvgm is distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2 or
(at your option) any later version. See
.I /usr/share/doc/libvgm/copyright
for the full license text and per-file licensing details.
