.TH ASAR 1 "June 2026" "asar 4.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asar \- create and extract Electron .asar archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asar
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.RI [ args ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B asar
is the official command-line tool for creating and extracting
.I .asar
archives \(em the format used by Electron applications to bundle their source
files into a single immutable file.
.PP
.I .asar
archives are simple concatenated file archives similar to
.BR tar (1),
but with a random-access JSON index at the start so individual files can be
read without scanning the whole archive.
They are used by Electron at runtime to load application code efficiently.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "pack " "dir output"
Create a new
.I .asar
archive from the contents of
.IR dir ,
writing the result to
.IR output .
Alias:
.BR p .
.RS
.TP
.BI "--ordering " file
Path to a text file listing relative paths in the desired packing order.
One path per line.
.TP
.BI "--unpack " expression
Glob expression; matching files are excluded from the archive and left on
disk next to it as unpacked files.
.TP
.BI "--unpack-dir " expression
Glob expression or literal prefix; matching directories are excluded from
the archive.
.TP
.B --exclude-hidden
Exclude hidden files (those whose name starts with
.IR . ).
.RE
.TP
.BI "list " archive
Print the paths of all files contained in
.IR archive ,
one per line.
Alias:
.BR l .
.RS
.TP
.B "-i, --is-pack"
Annotate each path with whether it is packed or unpacked.
.RE
.TP
.BI "extract-file " "archive filename"
Extract a single file named
.I filename
from
.IR archive ,
writing it to the current directory.
Alias:
.BR ef .
.TP
.BI "extract " "archive dest"
Extract all files from
.I archive
into the directory
.IR dest .
Alias:
.BR e .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-V, --version"
Print the version number and exit.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Print a usage summary and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Pack a directory:
.PP
.RS
.nf
asar pack myapp/ myapp.asar
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pack, leaving native modules unpacked:
.PP
.RS
.nf
asar pack myapp/ myapp.asar --unpack "*.node"
.fi
.RE
.PP
List archive contents:
.PP
.RS
.nf
asar list myapp.asar
.fi
.RE
.PP
Extract the whole archive:
.PP
.RS
.nf
asar extract myapp.asar ./extracted/
.fi
.RE
.PP
Extract a single file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
asar extract-file myapp.asar app/main.js
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tar (1),
.BR node (1)
.PP
Upstream: https://github.com/electron/asar
.SH AUTHORS
Originally written by GitHub Inc.
Packaged for Foundry Linux by Foundry Linux <packages@foundrylinux.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 GitHub Inc.
License MIT: see
.I /usr/share/doc/asar/LICENSE.md
for the full text.
