.TH VGMSTREAM\-CLI 1 "2026-05-18" "vgmstream r2083" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vgmstream\-cli \- decode streamed video\-game audio to WAV
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vgmstream\-cli
.RB [ \-o
.IR outfile.wav ]
.RI [ options ]
.IR infile
.RI [ infile " ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vgmstream\-cli
decodes streamed (prerecorded) video\-game audio in over 100 formats —
container files such as
.IR .adx ,
.IR .aix ,
.IR .at3 ,
.IR .brstm ,
.IR .bnsf ,
.IR .gcm ,
.IR .genh ,
.IR .hca ,
.IR .vag ,
and many obscure single\-game codecs — and writes PCM WAV (or raw PCM to
standard output) suitable for mastering, conversion, or analysis pipelines.
.PP
This Foundry Linux build links against the system FFmpeg, MPG123, Vorbis,
Opus, and Speex libraries for wide codec coverage. The upstream\-vendored
ATRAC9 / CELT / G.719 / G.722.1 codec backends are disabled — files
exclusively in those formats will fail to decode; raise an issue if you
need them.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile.wav"
Name of the output
.B .wav
file. Defaults to
.IR infile.wav .
Wildcards in
.IR outfile :
.B ?s
expands to the subsong number,
.B ?n
to the stream name,
.B ?f
to the input filename.
.TP
.B \-m
Print metadata only; do not decode.
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore looping information; play the whole stream once.
.TP
.BI \-l " N.n"
Loop count. Default
.BR 2.0 .
.TP
.BI \-f " N.n"
Fade time in seconds after the loop count is reached. Default
.BR 10.0 .
.TP
.BI \-d " N.n"
Fade delay in seconds. Default
.BR 0.0 .
.TP
.B \-F
Don't fade after the loop count; play the remainder of the stream.
.TP
.B \-e
Set end\-to\-end looping if the file has no loop points.
.TP
.B \-E
Force end\-to\-end looping even if the file has real loop points.
.TP
.BI \-s " N"
Select subsong
.IR N ,
if the format supports multiple subsongs.
.TP
.BI \-S " N"
Select end subsong
.IR N .
Use
.B 0
to select all subsongs.
.TP
.B \-p
Write to standard output instead of a file (for piping).
.TP
.B \-P
Write to standard output even if stdout is a terminal.
.TP
.B \-c
Loop forever, writing to standard output.
.TP
.B \-L
Append an
.B smpl
chunk and create a looping WAV.
.TP
.B \-w
Emit
.B .wav
in the original sample format rather than mixing to PCM16.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version info and the list of supported extensions as JSON, then exit.
.TP
.B \-I
Print the requested file's info as JSON.
.TP
.B \-h
Print the full option list (including the extras below) and exit.
.SH EXTRA OPTIONS
These are exposed via
.BR \-h
and are intended for testing and tooling.
.TP
.BI \-2 " N"
Output only the
.IR N th
(first is
.BR 0 )
set of stereo channels.
.TP
.B \-x
Decode and print an
.B adxencd
command line to re\-encode as ADX.
.TP
.B \-g
Decode and print an
.B oggenc
command line to re\-encode as OGG.
.TP
.B \-b
Decode and print batch variable commands.
.TP
.B \-v
Validate extensions (for extension testing).
.TP
.B \-r
Reset and output a second file (for reset testing).
.TP
.BI \-k " N"
Kill (seek)
.I N
samples before decoding (for seek testing).
.B \-2
seeks to the loop start,
.B \-3
to the loop end.
.TP
.BI \-K " N"
Kill (seek) again to
.I N
samples before decoding (for seek testing).
.TP
.B \-t
Print
.B !tags
found in
.BR !tags.m3u .
.TP
.B \-T
Print the title (for title testing).
.TP
.BI \-D " max-channels"
Downmix to
.IR max-channels
(for plugin downmix testing).
.TP
.BI \-B " samples"
Force a sample buffer size (for API testing).
.TP
.BI \-W " type"
Force WAV output format.
.B 1
= PCM16,
.B 2
= PCM24,
.B 3
= PCM32,
.B 4
= float.
.TP
.B \-O
Decode but don't write to file (for performance testing).
.SH EXAMPLES
Decode
.I track.brstm
to
.IR track.wav :
.IP
.B vgmstream\-cli track.brstm
.PP
Decode subsong 3 of
.IR album.fsb
into a named output file:
.IP
.B vgmstream\-cli \-s 3 \-o album_3.wav album.fsb
.PP
Stream raw PCM to a pipe for further processing:
.IP
.B vgmstream\-cli \-p game.adx | sox \-t raw \-r 48000 \-e signed \-b 16 \-c 2 \- out.flac
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/vgmstream/README.md.gz
Full upstream documentation index.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sox (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B vgmstream
is developed by Adam Gashlin, Christopher Snowhill, bnnm, EdnessP,
NicknineTheEagle, and many others. See
.I /usr/share/doc/vgmstream/copyright
for the full contributor list and license.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Distributed under the ISC\-style permission grant reproduced in
.IR /usr/share/doc/vgmstream/copyright .
