.TH GHIDRA 1 "May 2026" "Ghidra 12.1" "Reverse Engineering Tools"
.SH NAME
ghidra \- NSA software reverse engineering framework (GUI mode)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ghidra
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ghidra
launches the Ghidra Software Reverse Engineering (SRE) framework developed by
the National Security Agency (NSA) Research Directorate.
.PP
Ghidra is a multi-platform reverse engineering tool that provides disassembly,
assembly, decompilation, graphing, and scripting capabilities for compiled
binaries.  It supports a wide range of processor instruction sets and executable
formats including ELF, PE (Windows), Mach-O, raw binary images, and many game
cartridge formats.
.PP
Launching
.B ghidra
opens the project manager window from which you can create or open projects,
import binaries for analysis, and open the CodeBrowser for interactive
disassembly and decompilation.
.PP
Ghidra stores project data under
.I $HOME/.ghidra/
and user preferences under
.IR $HOME/.ghidra-<version>/ .
.SH OPTIONS
Ghidra's launcher passes all arguments to the Java process.  Common JVM flags:
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display built\-in usage information (passed through to Ghidra's Java main).
.TP
.BI \-DGHIDRA_MAXMEM= size
Override the maximum JVM heap size (e.g.
.IR 8G ,
.IR 4096m ).
The environment variable
.B GHIDRA_MAXMEM
serves the same purpose.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GHIDRA_MAXMEM
Override the default maximum JVM heap memory (1/4 of system RAM).
Accepted values match the regex \fI\ed+[gGmMkK]\fR (e.g. \fI8G\fR, \fI4096m\fR).
.TP
.B GHIDRA_GUI_MAXMEM
Override heap memory for GUI instances only.
.TP
.B GHIDRA_JAVA_OPTIONS
Additional JVM arguments applied to all Ghidra instances.
.TP
.B GHIDRA_GUI_JAVA_OPTIONS
Additional JVM arguments applied to GUI instances only.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/ghidra/
Ghidra installation directory.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/ghidra/ghidraRun
Upstream launcher script (symlinked from \fB/usr/bin/ghidra\fR).
.TP
.I $HOME/.ghidra/
User project storage directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ghidra-headless (1),
.BR java (1)
.PP
Ghidra documentation: \fI/usr/lib/ghidra/docs/\fR
.br
Getting Started: \fI/usr/lib/ghidra/docs/GettingStarted.html\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Ghidra was developed by the NSA Research Directorate.
See \fIhttps://ghidra-sre.org/\fR for more information.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2019\-2026 National Security Agency.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
