.TH GHIDRA-HEADLESS 1 "May 2026" "Ghidra 12.1" "Reverse Engineering Tools"
.SH NAME
ghidra-headless \- Ghidra batch (non-GUI) analysis mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ghidra-headless
.I <project_location>
.I <project_name>
[\fB\-import\fR \fIfiles\fR|\fIdirs\fR]
[\fB\-process\fR [\fIfile\fR]]
[\fB\-preScript\fR \fIScriptName\fR [\fIargs\fR]]
[\fB\-postScript\fR \fIScriptName\fR [\fIargs\fR]]
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ghidra-headless
runs Ghidra in headless (batch) mode without the GUI.  It is useful for
automated analysis pipelines, CI integration, and scripting large sets of
binaries.
.PP
Analysis scripts (Java or Jython) specified via
.B \-preScript
and
.B \-postScript
run against each imported or processed binary.  Results are stored in the
Ghidra project at
.IR project_location / project_name .gpr.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-import \fIfiles\fR|\fIdirs\fR
Import the specified files or directory trees into the project before analysis.
.TP
.B \-process \fR[\fIfile\fR]
Run analysis against already-imported files in the project.  If \fIfile\fR is
omitted, all files in the project are processed.
.TP
.B \-preScript \fIScriptName\fR [\fIargs...\fR]
Run \fIScriptName\fR before auto-analysis.
.TP
.B \-postScript \fIScriptName\fR [\fIargs...\fR]
Run \fIScriptName\fR after auto-analysis.
.TP
.B \-scriptPath \fIpath\fR
Colon-separated list of directories to search for scripts.
.TP
.B \-noanalysis
Skip auto-analysis (import only).
.TP
.B \-overwrite
Overwrite existing project files.
.TP
.B \-deleteProject
Delete the project when the run is complete.
.TP
.B \-log \fIlogfile\fR
Write application log to the specified file.
.TP
.B \-readOnly
Open the project in read-only mode.
.TP
.B \-max-cpu \fIN\fR
Limit the number of CPU cores used for analysis.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GHIDRA_MAXMEM
Override the maximum JVM heap memory (e.g. \fI8G\fR, \fI4096m\fR).
.TP
.B GHIDRA_JAVA_OPTIONS
Additional JVM arguments.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/ghidra/support/analyzeHeadless
Upstream headless launcher (symlinked from \fB/usr/bin/ghidra-headless\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
Import and analyse a binary, run a post-analysis script:
.PP
.RS
.nf
ghidra-headless /tmp/myproject MyProject \\
    -import /path/to/binary.elf \\
    -postScript ExportFunctions.py
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ghidra (1),
.BR java (1)
.PP
Headless analyser guide: \fI/usr/lib/ghidra/support/analyzeHeadlessREADME.html\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Ghidra was developed by the NSA Research Directorate.
See \fIhttps://ghidra-sre.org/\fR for more information.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2019\-2026 National Security Agency.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.
