.TH F9DASM 1 "2026-05-18" "f9dasm 1.83" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
f9dasm \- Motorola 6800/6809 and Hitachi 6309 disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B f9dasm
.RI [ options ]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B f9dasm
is a portable disassembler for the Motorola 6800, 6801, 6802, 6803, 6808,
6809 and Hitachi 6301, 6303, 6309 microprocessors. It reads Intel Hex,
Motorola S\-record, FLEX9 binary, and raw binary input, and emits TSC
assembler\-compatible (or, with the
.B RB_VARIANT
build flag, Rainer Buchty's variant) output.
.PP
Information files passed via
.B \-info
guide disassembly of non\-trivial binaries with directives that mark
code/data regions, symbol names, comments, addressing modes, and forced
branches. Run
.B "f9dasm \-info help"
for the directive reference.
.SH OPTIONS
All numeric values are hexadecimal unless
.B \-dec
is set.
.TP
.BI \-begin " addr"
Start disassembly at
.IR addr .
Defaults to the
.B \-offset
value.
.TP
.BI \-end " addr"
End disassembly at
.IR addr .
Defaults to the last byte loaded.
.TP
.BI \-offset " addr"
Load program at
.IR addr .
Default 0.
.TP
.BI \-out " file"
Write output to
.IR file
instead of stdout.
.TP
.B \-noaddr
Suppress address column.
.TP
.B \-hex
Include hex dump (default).
.TP
.B \-nohex
Omit hex dump.
.TP
.B \-x
Use 6309 opcodes in the old\-style syntax.
.TP
.B \-6301
Use 6301/6303 opcodes.
.TP
.B \-6309
Use 6309 opcodes.
.TP
.B \-6800
Use 6800/6802/6808 opcodes.
.TP
.B \-6801
Use 6801/6803 opcodes.
.TP
.B \-os9
Patch SWI2 as an OS\-9 system call.
.TP
.BI \-info " file"
Read directive
.IR file .
.B "\-info help"
prints directive documentation and exits.
.TP
.BI \-cchar " char"
Use
.I char
as comment delimiter (default
.BR ; ).
.TP
.B \-flex
Use FLEX9 standard labels (default).
.TP
.B \-noflex
Disable FLEX9 standard labels.
.TP
.B \-conv
Emit convenience mnemonics (default).
.TP
.B \-noconv
Disable convenience mnemonics.
.TP
.B \-dec
Emit numeric values in decimal.
.TP
.B \-nodec
Emit numeric values in hexadecimal (default).
.TP
.B \-comment
Emit comments (default).
.TP
.B \-nocomment
Omit comments.
.TP
.B \-asc
Append ASCII rendering of code/data (default).
.TP
.B \-noasc
Suppress ASCII rendering.
.TP
.B \-fcc
Emit data as
.B FCC
strings (default).
.TP
.B \-nofcc
Emit data as
.B FCB
or
.BR FDB .
.TP
.B \-omitzero
Omit indexed\-mode operands of $00 (default).
.TP
.B \-showzero
Always print indexed\-mode $00 operands.
.TP
.B \-forced
Emit forced direct/extended addressing markers (default).
.TP
.B \-noforced
Suppress forced direct/extended markers.
.TP
.BI \-ldchar " char"
Use
.I char
as the label delimiter (default space).
.TP
.B \-help
Print extended help, including the
.B \-info
directive reference, and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/f9dasm/README.md.gz
Full upstream manual.
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/f9dasm/f9dasm.htm
HTML version of the upstream manual.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hex2bin (1),
.BR mot2bin (1),
.BR cmd2mot (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.B f9dasm
is based on the dasm09 disassembler engine by Arto Salmi (2000), with
substantial additions by Hermann Seib (2001\-2022), Colin Bourassa (2013),
and Rainer Buchty (2014\-2015).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2000 Arto Salmi.
Parts copyright \(co 2001\-2022 Hermann Seib, 2013 Colin Bourassa,
2014\-2015 Rainer Buchty.
Distributed under the GNU General Public License version 2 or later.
