.TH GENMON 1 "June 2026" "drmon 1.0.1" "Developer Tools"
.SH NAME
genmon \- Genesis/68000 source-level debugger for game development
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genmon
[\fIstartup-script\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B genmon
is the Sega Genesis (Motorola 68000) variant of
.BR drmon ,
the Developer Resources Monitor.
It is a source-level debugger and memory monitor for Genesis game development,
running as a wide-ncurses terminal application.
.PP
When launched without a connected target, drmon runs in disconnected mode:
the full text UI is available and expressions, symbols, macros, and command
scripts can be used, but target memory reads return zero and Run/Stop/Step
have no effect.
.PP
To connect to a live Genesis target, run MAME with \fB\-debugger gdbstub\fR
and set \fBDRMON_GDB_ADDR\fR if the GDB RSP stub is not on
\fB127.0.0.1:23946\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I startup-script
Path to a drmon script file (\fB.SCR\fR extension optional) to execute on
startup.  If the argument is not a valid path, drmon appends \fB.SCR\fR and
retries.  If omitted, drmon looks for \fBgenmon.scr\fR in the current
directory.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DRMON_GDB_ADDR
TCP address of MAME's GDB RSP stub (Genesis bridge).
Default: \fB127.0.0.1:23946\fR.
.TP
.B TERM
Must support colour and cursor addressing.  \fBxterm-256color\fR or
\fBvte-256color\fR are typical.  The terminal must be at least 80\(mu25.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
The key bindings follow the original DOS product.  \fBAlt+X\fR quits.
\fBCtrl+C\fR is intentionally ignored to avoid accidental exit during a
debugging session.  \fBF10\fR activates the menu bar.  Each debug window is
opened with its dedicated Alt+letter shortcut (see the User Manual).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I genmon.scr
Optional startup command script, read from the current working directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR snesmon (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Developer Resources (Kevin T. Spillane, Will B. Norris IV), 1991\(en1994.
Linux port by Will Norris, 2026.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1991\(en1994 Developer Resources; 2026 Will Norris.
License: GNU General Public License version 2.
