.TH RUFF 1 "May 2026" "ruff 0.15.15" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ruff \- extremely fast Python linter and code formatter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ruff
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILES\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ruff
is an extremely fast Python linter and code formatter written in Rust.
It can replace Flake8 (plus dozens of plugins), Black, isort, pyupgrade,
and more, while running 10\(en100x faster than the equivalent Python tools.
.PP
Configuration is read from \fBpyproject.toml\fR, \fBruff.toml\fR, or
\fB.ruff.toml\fR in the project root.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B check [\fIFILES\fR...]
Lint the given files or directories. Reads from stdin if no files are given.
.TP
.B format [\fIFILES\fR...]
Format the given files or directories. Equivalent to running Black.
.TP
.B rule \fIRULE\fR
Explain a specific lint rule, or list all rules if given \fB--all\fR.
.TP
.B config [\fIKEY\fR]
List or describe available configuration options.
.TP
.B linter
List all supported upstream linters.
.TP
.B clean
Remove ruff's cache from the current directory tree.
.TP
.B server
Start the LSP language server (for editor integration).
.TP
.B analyze
Run analysis over Python source code.
.TP
.B version
Print the ruff version.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose logging.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Print diagnostics only, suppress other output.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-silent
Suppress all output (exit code still reflects findings).
.TP
.BI \-\-config " KEY=VALUE\fR|\fIPATH"
Override a configuration option or specify a config file path.
.TP
.B \-\-isolated
Ignore all configuration files.
.TP
.BI \-\-color " WHEN"
Control colored output: \fBauto\fR (default), \fBalways\fR, or \fBnever\fR.
.SH "CHECK OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Automatically fix fixable lint violations.
.TP
.B \-\-unsafe\-fixes
Apply fixes that may change program behaviour.
.TP
.BI \-\-select " RULES"
Comma-separated list of rule codes to enable (e.g. \fBE,F,I\fR).
.TP
.BI \-\-ignore " RULES"
Comma-separated list of rule codes to ignore.
.TP
.B \-\-statistics
Show a count of each violation type.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-files
List all files ruff would lint and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Lint the current directory:
.PP
.RS
.B ruff check .
.RE
.PP
Lint and auto-fix:
.PP
.RS
.B ruff check --fix .
.RE
.PP
Format a file:
.PP
.RS
.B ruff format src/game.py
.RE
.PP
Explain rule E501:
.PP
.RS
.B ruff rule E501
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B pyproject.toml
Configuration under \fB[tool.ruff]\fR.
.TP
.B ruff.toml
Standalone configuration file (same format, no \fB[tool.ruff]\fR wrapper).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR flake8 (1),
.BR black (1),
.BR isort (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Charles Marsh and the Astral Software team.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Charles Marsh. License MIT.
.PP
Full license and bundled-library attributions:
.UR https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff/blob/main/LICENSE
.UE
