.TH PPSSPP 1 "May 2026" "PPSSPP 1.20.4" "Games"
.SH NAME
ppsspp \- fast and portable PSP emulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppsspp
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
[\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ppsspp
is a PlayStation Portable (PSP) emulator that translates PSP CPU instructions
directly into optimized x86, x64, ARM, or ARM64 machine code using JIT
recompilation.
.PP
When launched with a game \fIFILE\fR (ISO, CSO, PBP, ELF, or ZIP), the emulator
starts the game immediately. Without a \fIFILE\fR argument, it opens the main menu
where games can be browsed and launched.
.PP
PSP game files are not included. Users must supply their own legally obtained
game images.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version string and exit.
.TP
.B \-d
Set log level to debug.
.TP
.B \-v
Set log level to verbose.
.TP
.BI \-\-loglevel= INTEGER
Set log level to the specified integer value.
.TP
.BI \-\-log= FILE
Write log output to \fIFILE\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-state= FILE
Load save state from \fIFILE\fR on startup.
.TP
.B \-i
Use the interpreter (slowest; most accurate).
.TP
.B \-r
Use the IR interpreter.
.TP
.B \-j
Use JIT recompilation (default; fastest).
.TP
.B \-J
Use IR JIT recompilation.
.TP
.B \-\-fullscreen
Start in fullscreen mode, ignoring the saved configuration.
.TP
.B \-\-windowed
Start in windowed mode, ignoring the saved configuration.
.TP
.BI \-\-xres= PIXELS
Set horizontal resolution.
.TP
.BI \-\-yres= PIXELS
Set vertical resolution.
.TP
.BI \-\-dpi= FACTOR
Set DPI scaling factor.
.TP
.BI \-\-scale= FACTOR
Set display scale factor.
.TP
.B \-\-ipad
Set resolution to 1024\(mu768 (iPad dimensions).
.TP
.B \-\-portrait
Enable portrait mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-graphics= BACKEND
Select GPU rendering backend. Valid values include
.BR gles ,
.BR vulkan ,
.BR opengl ,
.BR software .
.TP
.B \-\-pause\-menu\-exit
Change "Exit to menu" in the in-game pause menu to "Exit" (exits the emulator).
.TP
.B \-\-escape\-exit
Exit the emulator when the Escape key is pressed.
.TP
.B \-\-gamesettings
Open settings directly on startup.
.TP
.B \-\-touchscreentest
Open the touchscreen test screen on startup.
.TP
.BI \-\-appendconfig= FILE
Merge the configuration from \fIFILE\fR into the running configuration.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ppsspp/
User configuration directory. Contains
.I PSP/SYSTEM/ppsspp.ini
(settings) and subdirectories for save data, states, and screenshots.
.TP
.I /usr/share/ppsspp/assets/
Bundled assets (shaders, fonts, UI textures).
.SH AUTHORS
PPSSPP was written by Henrik Hrydgard and contributors.
See https://github.com/hrydgard/ppsspp/graphs/contributors for the full list.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2012\(en2026 Henrik Hrydgard and contributors.
.PP
PPSSPP is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppsspp-headless (1)
