.TH M8TE 1 "June 2026" "m8te 1.5" "Foundry Linux"
.SH NAME
m8te \- SNES 8bpp tile, tilemap and palette editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B m8te
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B M8TE
("mate") is a graphical editor for Super Nintendo / Super Famicom
8-bits-per-pixel graphics. It generates, edits and arranges SNES tiles,
tilemaps and palettes for homebrew SNES game development. It is a
Mono/.NET (WinForms) application; the
.B m8te
command launches it on the Mono runtime.
.PP
M8TE targets two SNES graphics modes, which use 8bpp tiles but incompatible
data formats:
.TP
.B Mode 3 / 4
Planar (bitplane) format. One 32x32 map, up to four tilesets, with
horizontal and/or vertical tile flipping. Maps are 2 bytes per tile.
.TP
.B Mode 7
Linear format. One 128x128 map (sixteen 32x32 sub-maps), a single tileset,
no flipping. Maps are 1 byte per tile.
.SH USAGE
M8TE is driven entirely through its graphical interface. Import images as
tiles or palettes, paint maps with the multi-select and map-edit brushes,
sort palettes by brightness, and export tile/map/palette data to drop into
an SNES project.
.PP
Single-key editor commands include
.B x
(cut),
.B a
(select all),
.B v
(paste) and
.B y
(vertical flip).
.SH NOTES
The last 64 tiles (on tileset 4) are reserved and cannot be used \(em 8bpp
graphics are large, and reserving them leaves room for tilemaps and sprites.
Map height is disabled in Mode 7, and Mode 3 is limited to map 1.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project page:
.UR https://github.com/nesdoug/M8TE
.UE .
Companion 4bpp editor: M1TE.
.SH AUTHORS
M8TE was written by Doug Fraker (https://www.nesdoug.com/).
This man page was written for Foundry Linux.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2021-2022 Doug Fraker. Released under the MIT (Expat) license.
