.TH MSS 1 "May 2026" "mss 10.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mss \- ultra-fast cross-platform screenshot tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mss
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mss
captures one or more screenshots using the MSS (Multiple ScreenShots)
library. On Linux it accesses X11 and XRandR directly via ctypes, with
no Pillow or OpenCV dependency required for capture.
.PP
By default, all connected monitors are captured and saved as
\fBmonitor-{mon}.png\fR in the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-coordinates " " \fITOP,LEFT,WIDTH,HEIGHT\fR
Capture a specific rectangular region of the screen instead of a full
monitor. Coordinates are in pixels: top, left, width, height.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-level " " \fILEVEL\fR
PNG compression level (0\(en9, default: 6). Higher values compress more
but are slower to write.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-monitor " " \fIN\fR
Index of the monitor to capture (default: 0, which captures all monitors).
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Output filename pattern (default: \fBmonitor-{mon}.png\fR). The token
\fB{mon}\fR is replaced with the monitor index.
.TP
.BR \-\-with\-cursor
Include the mouse cursor in the screenshot (Linux only; ignored on other
platforms with a warning).
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress output of saved file paths.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-backend " " \fIBACKEND\fR
Platform-specific backend to use. On Linux the available backends are
\fBx11\fR and \fBxrandr\fR (default: \fBdefault\fR).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the mss version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a short help message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Capture all monitors:
.PP
.RS
.B mss
.RE
.PP
Capture monitor 1 only:
.PP
.RS
.B mss \-m 1
.RE
.PP
Capture a 640×480 region at position (100, 200):
.PP
.RS
.B mss \-c 200,100,640,480 \-o region.png
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR scrot (1),
.BR import (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mickaël Schoentgen <contact@tiger-222.fr>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2013\(en2026 Mickaël Schoentgen.
License MIT: <https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>.
