.TH SNES9X\-GTK 1 "May 2026" "Snes9x 1.63" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
snes9x\-gtk \- Super Nintendo Entertainment System emulator (GTK3 frontend)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snes9x\-gtk
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIROM\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snes9x\-gtk
is the GTK3 graphical frontend for Snes9x, a portable Super Nintendo
Entertainment System emulator. It emulates the SNES CPU, PPU, APU, and
co-processors including Super FX, SA-1, DSP-1/2/3/4, S-DD1, and others.
.PP
If a ROM file is given on the command line, it is loaded immediately on
startup. Supported formats include .smc, .sfc, .fig, .swc, and .zip/.gz
archives of the same.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-fullscreen
Start in fullscreen mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-conf\  FILE
Load configuration from \fIFILE\fR instead of the default location.
.TP
.BI \-\-display\-driver\  DRIVER
Select display driver. Available drivers depend on compile-time options;
typical values include \fBopengl\fR and \fBxv\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-sound\-driver\  DRIVER
Select sound driver. Available values include \fBalsa\fR, \fBpulse\fR,
\fBportaudio\fR, and \fBoss\fR (if compiled in).
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a brief usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display the emulator version and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/snes9x/snes9x.conf
Per-user configuration file.
.TP
.I /usr/share/snes9x/
Data directory (cheats database, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR retroarch (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Snes9x was written by Gary Henderson, Jerremy Koot, and many contributors.
See \fI/usr/share/doc/snes9x\-gtk/copyright\fR for the full list.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Snes9x is freeware for personal, non-commercial use.
See \fI/usr/share/doc/snes9x\-gtk/copyright\fR for the full license terms.
