.TH BLENDER-ASSET-FINDER-INSTALL 1 "May 2026" "blender-asset-finder 0.2.0" ""
.SH NAME
blender-asset-finder-install \- install the Asset Finder add-on into Blender 4.2+
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blender-asset-finder-install
[\fB\-\-blender\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-repo\fR \fINAME\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-enable\fR]
.br
.B blender-asset-finder-install
\fB\-h\fR | \fB\-\-help\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B blender-asset-finder-install
installs the Blender Asset Finder extension zip shipped under
.IR /usr/share/blender-asset-finder/
into the calling user's Blender 4.2+ extension repository, and enables
the add-on by default.
.PP
The add-on searches and downloads 3D assets from multiple online
repositories (Polyhaven, Kenney, AmbientCG, Quaternius, OpenGameArt,
Sketchfab) directly inside Blender, with per-blend licence-policy
filtering and provenance tracking. Distinct from Blender's built-in
\fIAsset Browser\fR (which is a local asset-library manager): this
add-on's distinguishing feature is the multi-provider online search
and on-demand download.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-blender " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to the Blender executable.
Default: the
.B blender
on
.BR $PATH .
.TP
.BR \-\-repo " " \fINAME\fR
Blender extension repository to install into.
Default:
.BR user_default .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-enable
Install the extension but do not enable it.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/blender-asset-finder/blender_asset_finder-<version>.zip
The Blender extension archive shipped by the blender-asset-finder package.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Extension installed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
No extension zip found, or Blender not on
.BR $PATH .
.TP
.B 2
Invalid command-line argument.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR blender (1),
.BR blender-asset-finder-cli (1)
.PP
The
.BR blender-asset-finder-cli (1)
CLI shares its provider library with this add-on; both are useful
front-ends to the same search/download backend.
.SH AUTHORS
WorldFoundry Packages <packages@worldfoundry.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 World Foundry contributors. Released under the
GNU General Public License version 2 or (at your option) any later
version.
